README.md, before:

# Coqtail

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/ambv/black)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/whonore/Coqtail.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/whonore/Coqtail)

## Interactive Coq Proofs in Vim

Coqtail enables interactive Coq proof development in Vim similar to
[CoqIDE](https://coq.inria.fr/refman/practical-tools/coqide.html)
or [ProofGeneral](https://proofgeneral.github.io/).

It supports:
- Coq 8.4 - 8.10
- Having multiple Coq buffers open
- Python 2 and 3

## Installation and Requirements

As a [vim package](https://vimhelp.org/repeat.txt.html#packages):

```sh
mkdir ~/.vim/pack/coq/start
git clone https://github.com/let-def/vimbufsync.git ~/.vim/pack/coq/start/vimbufsync
git clone https://github.com/whonore/coqtail.git ~/.vim/pack/coq/start/coqtail
vim +helptags\ .vim/pack/coq/start/coqtail/doc +q
```

Using
[pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen):

```
cd ~/.vim/bundle && git clone https://github.com/whonore/coqtail.git
```

Using
[Vundle](https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim):

```
Plugin 'whonore/coqtail' (in .vimrc)
:PluginInstall
```

Using
[VimPlug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug):

```
Plug 'whonore/coqtail' (in .vimrc)
:PlugInstall
```

Coqtail requires:
- Vim compiled with either `+python` or `+python3`
- [vimbufsync](https://github.com/let-def/vimbufsync)
- [Coq 8.4](https://coq.inria.fr/coq-84),
  [8.5](https://coq.inria.fr/coq-85),
  [8.6](https://coq.inria.fr/coq-86),
  [8.7](https://coq.inria.fr/coq-87),
  [8.8](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.8.2),
  [8.9](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.9.1), or
  [8.10](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.10%2Bbeta2)

If you are using pathogen, documentation can be generated by
`:call pathogen#helptags()`. Alternatively, you can do `:helptags
{path-to-coqtail}/doc`.

## Usage

Coqtail provides the following commands (see `:help coqtail` for more details):

| Command | Mapping | Description |
|---|---|---|
| **Starting and Stopping** | |
| `CoqStart` | `<leader>cc` | Launch Coqtail for the current buffer. |
| `CoqStop` | `<leader>cq` | Quit Coqtail for the current buffer. |
| **Movement** | |
| `{n}CoqNext` | `<leader>cj` | Check the next `n` (1 by default) sentences with Coq. |
| `{n}CoqUndo` | `<leader>ck` | Step back `n` (1 by default) sentences. |
| `{n}CoqToLine` | `<leader>cl` | Check/rewind all sentences up to line `n` (cursor position by default). `n` can also be `$` to check the entire buffer.|
| `CoqToTop` | `<leader>cT` | Rewind to the beginning of the file. Similar to `1CoqToLine`, but `CoqToLine` only rewinds to the end of the line. |
| `CoqJumpToEnd` | `<leader>cG` | Move the cursor to the end of the checked region. |
| `CoqGotoDef[!] <arg>` | `<leader>cg` | Populate the quickfix list with possible locations of the definition of `<arg>` and try to jump to the first one. |
| **Queries** | |
| `Coq <args>` | | Send arbitrary queries to Coq (e.g. `Check`, `About`, `Print`, etc.). |
| `Coq Check <arg>` | `<leader>ch` | Show the type of `<arg>` (the mapping will use the term under the cursor). |
| `Coq About <arg>` | `<leader>ca` | Show information about `<arg>`. |
| `Coq Print <arg>` | `<leader>cp` | Show the definition of `<arg>`. |
| `Coq Locate <arg>` | `<leader>cf` | Show where `<arg>` is defined. |
| `Coq SearchAbout <args>` | `<leader>cs` | Show theorems about `<args>`. |
| **Goal Focusing** | |
| `{n}CoqGotoGoal` | `<leader>cgg` | Scroll the goal panel to the start of the `n`th goal (defaults to 1). Number of lines shown is controlled by `g:coqtail_goal_lines`. |
| `{n}CoqGotoGoal!` | `<leader>cGG` | Scroll the goal panel to the end of the `n`th goal. |
| `CoqGotoGoalNext` | `g]` | Scroll the goal panel to the start of the next goal. |
| `CoqGotoGoalNext!` | `G]` | Scroll the goal panel to the end of the next goal. |
| `CoqGotoGoalPrev` | `g[` | Scroll the goal panel to the start of the previous goal. |
| `CoqGotoGoalPrev!` | `G[` | Scroll the goal panel to the end of the previous goal. |

The mappings shown above are set by default, but you can disable them all and
define your own by setting `g:coqtail_nomap = 1` in your .vimrc.
Alternatively, you can choose to only remap specific commands and the defaults
will still be used for the rest.

By default Coqtail will use the `coqtop` or `coqtop.opt` on your `PATH`.
You can tell it to search instead in a specific directory by setting
`b:coqtail_coq_path` before calling `CoqStart`. To set this option globally use
`g:coqtail_coq_path`.

Coqtail also comes with an ftdetect script for Coq, as well as modified
versions of Vincent Aravantinos'
[syntax](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2063) and
[index](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2079) scripts for Coq.
These scripts are used by default but can be disabled by setting
`g:coqtail_nosyntax = 1` and `g:coqtail_noindent = 1` respectively.

## Thanks

Parts of Coqtail were originally inspired by/adapted from
[Coquille](https://github.com/the-lambda-church/coquille)
(MIT License, Copyright (c) 2013, Thomas Refis).

Commit message:

mention .vimrc prerequisites to installation section

README.md, after:

# Coqtail

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/ambv/black)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/whonore/Coqtail.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/whonore/Coqtail)

## Interactive Coq Proofs in Vim

Coqtail enables interactive Coq proof development in Vim similar to
[CoqIDE](https://coq.inria.fr/refman/practical-tools/coqide.html)
or [ProofGeneral](https://proofgeneral.github.io/).

It supports:
- Coq 8.4 - 8.10
- Having multiple Coq buffers open
- Python 2 and 3

## Installation and Requirements

Regardless of the installation method chosen below, the vim configuration (e.g. `.vimrc`) should include `filetype plugin indent on` and `syntax on` for this plugin to be loaded and work correctly (`indent` is optional but recommended). Some systems (e.g. Arch Linux) have this configuration by default, but others do not.

As a [vim package](https://vimhelp.org/repeat.txt.html#packages):

```sh
mkdir -p ~/.vim/pack/coq/start
git clone https://github.com/let-def/vimbufsync.git ~/.vim/pack/coq/start/vimbufsync
git clone https://github.com/whonore/coqtail.git ~/.vim/pack/coq/start/coqtail
vim +helptags\ .vim/pack/coq/start/coqtail/doc +q
```

Using
[pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen):

```
cd ~/.vim/bundle && git clone https://github.com/whonore/coqtail.git
```

Using
[Vundle](https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim):

```
Plugin 'whonore/coqtail' (in .vimrc)
:PluginInstall
```

Using
[VimPlug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug):

```
Plug 'whonore/coqtail' (in .vimrc)
:PlugInstall
```

Coqtail requires:
- Vim compiled with either `+python` or `+python3`
- [vimbufsync](https://github.com/let-def/vimbufsync)
- [Coq 8.4](https://coq.inria.fr/coq-84),
  [8.5](https://coq.inria.fr/coq-85),
  [8.6](https://coq.inria.fr/coq-86),
  [8.7](https://coq.inria.fr/coq-87),
  [8.8](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.8.2),
  [8.9](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.9.1), or
  [8.10](https://github.com/coq/coq/releases/tag/V8.10%2Bbeta2)

If you are using pathogen, documentation can be generated by
`:call pathogen#helptags()`. Alternatively, you can do `:helptags
{path-to-coqtail}/doc`.

## Usage

Coqtail provides the following commands (see `:help coqtail` for more details):

| Command | Mapping | Description |
|---|---|---|
| **Starting and Stopping** | |
| `CoqStart` | `<leader>cc` | Launch Coqtail for the current buffer. |
| `CoqStop` | `<leader>cq` | Quit Coqtail for the current buffer. |
| **Movement** | |
| `{n}CoqNext` | `<leader>cj` | Check the next `n` (1 by default) sentences with Coq. |
| `{n}CoqUndo` | `<leader>ck` | Step back `n` (1 by default) sentences. |
| `{n}CoqToLine` | `<leader>cl` | Check/rewind all sentences up to line `n` (cursor position by default). `n` can also be `$` to check the entire buffer.|
| `CoqToTop` | `<leader>cT` | Rewind to the beginning of the file. Similar to `1CoqToLine`, but `CoqToLine` only rewinds to the end of the line. |
| `CoqJumpToEnd` | `<leader>cG` | Move the cursor to the end of the checked region. |
| `CoqGotoDef[!] <arg>` | `<leader>cg` | Populate the quickfix list with possible locations of the definition of `<arg>` and try to jump to the first one. |
| **Queries** | |
| `Coq <args>` | | Send arbitrary queries to Coq (e.g. `Check`, `About`, `Print`, etc.). |
| `Coq Check <arg>` | `<leader>ch` | Show the type of `<arg>` (the mapping will use the term under the cursor). |
| `Coq About <arg>` | `<leader>ca` | Show information about `<arg>`. |
| `Coq Print <arg>` | `<leader>cp` | Show the definition of `<arg>`. |
| `Coq Locate <arg>` | `<leader>cf` | Show where `<arg>` is defined. |
| `Coq SearchAbout <args>` | `<leader>cs` | Show theorems about `<args>`. |
| **Goal Focusing** | |
| `{n}CoqGotoGoal` | `<leader>cgg` | Scroll the goal panel to the start of the `n`th goal (defaults to 1). Number of lines shown is controlled by `g:coqtail_goal_lines`. |
| `{n}CoqGotoGoal!` | `<leader>cGG` | Scroll the goal panel to the end of the `n`th goal. |
| `CoqGotoGoalNext` | `g]` | Scroll the goal panel to the start of the next goal. |
| `CoqGotoGoalNext!` | `G]` | Scroll the goal panel to the end of the next goal. |
| `CoqGotoGoalPrev` | `g[` | Scroll the goal panel to the start of the previous goal. |
| `CoqGotoGoalPrev!` | `G[` | Scroll the goal panel to the end of the previous goal. |

The mappings shown above are set by default, but you can disable them all and
define your own by setting `g:coqtail_nomap = 1` in your .vimrc.
Alternatively, you can choose to only remap specific commands and the defaults
will still be used for the rest.

By default Coqtail will use the `coqtop` or `coqtop.opt` on your `PATH`.
You can tell it to search instead in a specific directory by setting
`b:coqtail_coq_path` before calling `CoqStart`. To set this option globally use
`g:coqtail_coq_path`.

Coqtail also comes with an ftdetect script for Coq, as well as modified
versions of Vincent Aravantinos'
[syntax](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2063) and
[index](http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2079) scripts for Coq.
These scripts are used by default but can be disabled by setting
`g:coqtail_nosyntax = 1` and `g:coqtail_noindent = 1` respectively.

## Thanks

Parts of Coqtail were originally inspired by/adapted from
[Coquille](https://github.com/the-lambda-church/coquille)
(MIT License, Copyright (c) 2013, Thomas Refis).
